Parallel and Perpendicular Lines
====================================================

3.1: Parallel Lines and Transversal
--------------------------------------

.. rubric:: Vocabulary

**Parallel lines** never intersect.
A **transversal** goes though two parallel lines.
**Corresponding angles** are both on the same side of separate parallel lines and on the same side of the transversal.
**Vertical angle** is when opposite angles formed when two lines intersect, always congruent.
**Alternate exterior angles** are on the oposite side of separate parallel lines and on the oposite side of the transversal. They are always on the outside.
**Alternate interior angles** are on the oposite side of separate parallel lines and on the oposite side of the transversal. They are always on the inside.
**Same side interior angles** are on the inside angles of separate parallel lines and on the same side of the transversal.
**Same side exterior angles** are on the outside angles of separate parallel lines and on the same side of the transversal.

.. drawio-image:: diagrams/31-transversal.drawio

:math:`\angle 1` and :math:`\angle 5` are corresponding angles. :math:`\angle 1` and :math:`\angle 4` are vertical angles. :math:`\angle 1` and :math:`\angle 8` are alternate exterior angles. :math:`\angle 4` and :math:`\angle 5` are alternate interior angles. The previous angles were congruent. The following are supplementary. :math:`\angle 3` and :math:`\angle 5` are same side interior angles. :math:`\angle 1` and :math:`\angle 7` are same side exterior angles.  

3.2: Translations
----------------------


3.3: Rotations
-------------------


3.4: Compositions of Transformations
-----------------------------------------


3.5: Symmetry
------------------


